Hey guys welcome back.
So far we've talked about the basics of video marketing running through common video types and thinking
about ideas you could use to create your own in the pre-production phase you finalize your idea write
your script and prepare to actually make this video.
And that leads us to the second phase of video production also known as production.
This is the part where we actually set up locations shoot our video.
We say things in front of the camera and we make sure we get all the pieces we need for the third and
final phase the post-production.
So pre-production is all about preparation.
If you can do a great job preparing your script your notes and in the ideas you have your production
phase should go smoothly.
Pre-production is also where you figure out what content youre going to make.
Match it up to your audience and also make sure that there is some type of opportunity in the market
for what you're about to make.
Now I'm talking about your production going smoothly.
I mean while it probably won't but you and you might get lucky.
Look I want to give you any false hope here especially if you haven't produced a video before and I
don't mean you know selfie videos on your phone.
I mean real produced video content for the purposes of making some money or some real business purpose
producing videos can be a huge pain.
I mean think of it this way you could conceivably write a blog post during a rainy lightning storm with
your wife I knocked out using only your phone and a mobile app or a pencil and pen and you'd be sitting
in your car doing it on an airplane.
Right.
I mean that also sounds scary but it is possible written content is far easier to produce than video
content.
In that regard.
Now the video everything has to be prepped in advance in perfect detail if you're shooting in a conference
room in your office.
Well everybody else in the office needs to be quiet or otherwise you're going to hear them.
People have to stay out of the room or the audience will see them if you're on camera.
You need to look good.
You could write blog post in your underwear all day but videos require you to actually look presentable.
That requires everybody to show up at the same place during a set amount of time and or as you might
be renting space which means that you're on the clock and don't you get me started about shooting outside.
Well I guess I can talk about it if you're outside.
You have to pray that the weather is good enough.
It it's too dark outside too windy too rainy too noisy then you might not be able to create what you
want.
And all those girls are selling umbrellas or some kind of waterproof device and you need to stand in
the rain to show how it works.
In which case check me God.
So there's a lot of moving parts in a video production.
And there's a lot of things that can go wrong many many times have I filmed an entire day of work to
only find out the very end of the day that if we lost all the video.
Now the equivalent with a blog post be writing a really long blog post and then breaking your computer
and losing it.
But your chance of being able to recover that is a lot better than say having me last week.
Cat Ran and hit my hard drive off of a desk spinning disk hard drive disk no work no more lost almost
a terabyte of video.
Basically what I'm trying to say here is that there are core requirements for video production to be
successful.
These requirements are related to video audio lighting and seen go in each one of these in more detail
and the lectures coming up.
But essentially And here's the gist of it.
The requirements for your video refer to the type of camera you use the settings of that camera and
the equipment you use with your camera like specific lenses and the way you use the camera to record
your video.
The requirements for your audio refer to how to capture the sound you want to eliminate the sound you
don't want.
The requirements for your lighting which is arguably the most important part and to newbies that might
be surprising that refers to how you will light the subjects in your video making them look good which
could be done with natural light artificial light or any number of lighting combinations.
The requirements for your scene are related to what your location or set needs to look like giving your
eye enough stimuli but not enough to being distracting or matching the mood of what are video you're
trying to create.
My background right here is probably pushing it in terms of Toogood's to look at.
But when you're making long form educational content you're staring at my face for nine hours.
It helps have a couple of things to distract you occasionally in the lectures.
Coming up I'll go over plenty of detail for each aspect of video production.
So stay tuned and I'll see you in the next lecture.